[TELCODOCS-374] CNF-3107 NUMA-aware scheduling (#40307)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-deploying-the-numa-aware-scheduler.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *scalability_and_performance/cnf-numa-aware-scheduling.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cnf-deploying-the-numa-aware-scheduler_{context}"]
= Deploying the NUMA-aware secondary pod scheduler

> After you have installed the NUMA Resources Operator, configure the pod admittance policy for the required machine profile, create the required machine config pool, and deploy the NUMA-aware secondary scheduler. These steps are described in the following procedure.

Reviewer: I think you can remove the second sentence, "These steps are described in the following procedure."

> After you have installed the NUMA Resources Operator, configure the pod admittance policy for the required machine profile, create the required machine config pool, and deploy the NUMA-aware secondary scheduler. These steps are described in the following procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you install the NUMA Resources Operator, configure the pod admittance policy for the required machine profile, create the required machine config pool, and deploy the NUMA-aware secondary scheduler. These steps are described in the following procedure.
```

Could these items be an unordered list?

After you have installed the NUMA Resources Operator, configure the pod admittance policy for the required machine profile, create the required machine config pool, and deploy the NUMA-aware secondary scheduler. These steps are described in the following procedure.

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure
. Create the `KubeletConfig` custom resource that configures the pod admittance policy for the machine profile:

.. Save the following YAML in the `nro-kubeletconfig.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: KubeletConfig
metadata:
  name: cnf-worker-tuning
spec:
  machineConfigPoolSelector:
    matchLabels:
      cnf-worker-tuning: enabled
  kubeletConfig:
    cpuManagerPolicy: "static"
    cpuManagerReconcilePeriod: "5s"
    reservedSystemCPUs: "0,1"
    memoryManagerPolicy: "Static"
    evictionHard:
      memory.available: "100Mi"
    kubeReserved:
      memory: "512Mi"
    reservedMemory:
      - numaNode: 0
  limits:
    memory: "1124Mi"
    systemReserved:
      memory: "512Mi"
    topologyManagerPolicy: "single-numa-node"

> ----

Reviewer 3: yes please. It should read like
```
...
topologyManagerPolicy: "single-numa-node"
topologyManagerScope: "pod"
```

this will be removed when the known limitations are addressed, later in the cycle

.. Create the `KubeletConfig` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f nro-kubeletconfig.yaml
----

. Create the `MachineConfigPool` custom resource that enables custom kubelet configurations for worker nodes:

.. Save the following YAML in the `nro-machineconfig.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
metadata:
  labels:

>     custom-kubelet: enabled

Author: I added this label, LMK if you think there s more detail required

    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/mco-built-in: ""
    pools.operator.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/worker: ""
  name: worker
spec:
  machineConfigSelector:
    matchLabels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
----

.. Create the `MachineConfigPool` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f nro-machineconfig.yaml
----

. Create the `NUMAResourcesScheduler` custom resource that deploys the NUMA-aware custom pod scheduler:

.. Save the following YAML in the `nro-scheduler.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nodetopology.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: NUMAResourcesScheduler
metadata:
  name: numaresourcesscheduler
spec:

>   imageSpec: "quay.io/openshift-kni/scheduler-plugins:4.10-snapshot"

Reviewer 3: same, let's use either use a placeholder or registry.redhat.io/openshift4/noderesourcetopology-scheduler-container-rhel8:v4.10.0

.. Save the following YAML in the `nro-scheduler.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nodetopology.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: NUMAResourcesScheduler
metadata:
  name: numaresourcesscheduler
spec:
  imageSpec: "registry.redhat.io/openshift4/noderesourcetopology-scheduler-container-rhel8:v4.10"
----

.. Create the `NUMAResourcesScheduler` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f nro-scheduler.yaml
----

.Verification

Verify that the required resources deployed successfully:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get all -n openshift-numaresources
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/numaresources-controller-manager-7575848485-bns4s   1/1     Running   0          13m
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-dvj4n                  2/2     Running   0          16m
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-lcg4t                  2/2     Running   0          16m
pod/secondary-scheduler-56994cf6cf-7qf4q                1/1     Running   0          16m
NAME                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR                     AGE

> daemonset.apps/numaresourcesoperator-worker   2         2         2       2            2           node-role.kubernetes.io/worker=   16h

Reviewer 4: nit: just to be synced with the operator pods, let's adjust the daemonset Age to 16m instead of 16h

pod/numaresources-controller-manager-7575848485-bns4s   1/1     Running   0          13h
pod/numaresourcesoperator-worker-dvj4n                  2/2     Running   0          16h
pod/secondary-scheduler-56994cf6cf-7qf4q                1/1     Running   0          16h

NAME                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR                     AGE
daemonset.apps/numaresourcesoperator-worker   1         1         1       1            1           node-role.kubernetes.io/worker=   16h

NAME                                               READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/numaresources-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           13h
deployment.apps/secondary-scheduler                1/1     1            1           16h

NAME                                                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/numaresources-controller-manager-7575848485   1         1         1       13h
replicaset.apps/secondary-scheduler-56994cf6cf                1         1         1       16h
----

The following table describes the NUMA-aware secondary pod scheduler resources that you deploy:

> .NUMA-aware secondary pod scheduler resources

Author: @shajmakh Can you help with some details here. anything of importance

$ oc create -f nro-machineconfig.yaml
----

. Create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` resource that reads the `ResourceTopologyExporter` configuration from the `KubeletConfig` configured on the worker nodes:

.. Save the following YAML in the `nrop.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nodetopology.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: NUMAResourcesOperator
metadata:
  name: numaresourcesoperator
spec:
  nodeGroups:
  - machineConfigPoolSelector:
      matchLabels:
        pools.operator.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/worker: ""
----

.. Create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` CR:
+
[source,yaml]
----
$ oc create -f nrop.yaml
----

> 

Reviewer 4: an example output would be as follows:

```
numaresourcesoperator.nodetopology.openshift.io/numaresourcesoperator created
```

and one can display the resources as follows:

```
oc get numaresourcesoperators.nodetopology.openshift.io 
NAME                    AGE
numaresourcesoperator   45h
```
